so I mentioned at the end of the previous
video that there was a useful
application where recursive functions can come
in quite handy and that is dealing
with files or specifically getting a
directory listing of a computer's file
system now if you think about it modern
file systems are recursive in the sense
that a directory can itself contained
other directories so once the
functions listed all the objects in in
one directory you can call itself again
for all the objects that are themselves
directories so you can see that's a
really good use for a recursive function so what we are gonna do is
going to use the OS module to get the
directory listing that's also useful for
checking if something is a directory so
the function that we gonna write will
also have verified that the first directory
passed to it does in fact exist before
attempts to do anything else it now before I
go any further theirs another
example of recursion and that also
provides an neat way to use a function
that's nested within another function if
you really wanted to write a program to
visit all subdirectories then the OS
module provides a walk function that
will do that for you and in fact I'll
start off with that with the code we are about to write and I just want to bring up the documentation on the screen
because like always its a good habit to
get into to check out documentation so
bring it up on the screen paste it in my
browser you can see the link there we
go so you can see some pretty useful information about the OS
library that comes as part and parcel of Python
and if we scroll down we should see the os.walk generate the file
names in the directory tree by walking a
tree in a top-down or bottom-up so
that's why we are gonna look at so again
when in doubt refer to the documentation
its good way of learning more
information about any libraries that your
about to use ok so let's go back and I'm gonna
create a new module and I'm going to I said module but I'm
gonna create a new Python file I mean so....
I'm gonna call this one filesanddirectories but it doesn't matter what you call it.....and lets start doing some coding so
so firstly we are gonna import the os because we need to use that library...
we're going to start with the os.walk so.....
....
.....
....so there's our
basic applications so the os.walk
function as you can probably gather now
returns a list of tuples each tuple
contains a directory name and also 2 lists
the first list the name
is directories and you can see that
on line 6 because I'm referencing that and
the second one its pretty obvious
on line 8 that we're dealing with the list of
files was so there are the 2 list that also included in
the tuple now if you have to work with the
file system the os module is worth reading up
on and the
reason is it contains a lot of useful
functions including this os.walk one
so to see what walk is actually
doing we are going to create our own function
and actually recurse through all
subdirectories and print out the contents
but before we do that lets just run it
as it is now to see what it actually
does so gonna do that.....and you can see on the right hand side the
output has work so it's obviously
defaulted to the current folder and you
can see we got a list of files and theirs
actually not really much in the way of
directories their just to confirm that we
go back
and have a look in here we click in reveal in finder and go into scope and namespaces and obviously this was the
directory that it was dealing and hasn't really found much hidden files their starting with a dot on a MAC
are hidden which is why we can't see those so let's continue on now
and what we'll do is we'll create a
function now and put a bit more
coding into it and will make a look
it a bit prettier by indenting the list as
we enter a director etc so lets look at doing that
so gonna come up here and will define a function so...
....
.....
.....we are going to write that shortly
so in this particular function we are doing a
small amount of initialization the
important bit is obviously making sure
that the starting directory that's
passed to this function actually does
exist once that's done its gonna call a nested
function that will recursively visit all
subdirectories and display its contents
now the thing is the DIR_list function that we are about to
call on line 8 is only actually
needed by this function so that's a good
reason for defining it within list
directories so basically a function
within a function so here is how we go about
doing that
so we actually start in the list _directories function and we type.....
.....
...bearing in mind we already validated that the directory
exists and we will by the time we call dir_list and will do a check their so put...
....
.....
....so you can probably gather that one is
doing that's actually putting together
the directory and the file and
making a path for it so we are doing a
test here then to say whatever that was
actually found is that directory
entry because an entry in a particular folder can be
another folder or file so we are doing a check first
to see whether it is a directory I'm
using the term folder but obviously directory
and folder are terms interchangeable
terms they both mean the same thing so we are
determine that it directory so....
....
...a hint with a tab its going to make
things look prettier and be able to indent correctly and
in actual fact the next line......and
we are getting an error their and we'll talk
about this shortly so...
so using recursion we are calling back and using the
same function again and then we put....
.....
....
....so that
should be our function so basically
each time the inner function in a
function rather finds a directory
it increases the tab stopped by 1 and calls itself to visit the new directory now when
it returns it decreases the tab stops so you can see here on line 11 we're at
increases the tab stop it calls the
function calls itself again and it
decreases the tab again so it turns out to
be much simpler solution than trying to
keep track of which directories which
already have been visited and shows
how recursive functions can be very useful when
dealing with recursive structures such
as the file system now of course that's all
it work of course so it's a good idea
but IntelliJ as you can see on the screen
is actually showing errors and obviously
the code isn't going to work at
the moment
know if you're familiar with other
languages that allowed nested functions
2 such languages are Algol and Pascal
then you maybe a bit confused by the error so it's
saying that it can't resolve the
references to tap stop but tab stop is clearly
defined in the outer scope as we can see
on line 18 and in fact it looks
very similar to the situation we had
with local variables shadowing those
with the same name in the outer scope
and that's why IntelliJ was careful to refer them as variables in
the outer scope rather than the global
variables so this is the same situation
but the outer scope here is the function
list_directories of course that
is defined on line 3 just need to make another line their to get rid of that error and the other thing we are gonna do down here now is
to delete this code we don't need that anymore and we are going to be calling this when we figure
out what's going on here with list_directories with the current folder
so basically the errors that has coming up is
unresolved reference tab_stop as you can
see their and that's what's actually causing the
problem now if we define a tab_stop on line
within on line within the actual
function the inner function we can see what
happens so lets try doing that so....when we do that we
get the error that we've seen before shadows name
tab_stop from out of scope and the
reason for that is now we've done that Python's created
a local variable called tab_stop
just like it did when we
tried to assign it to a global variable in
the blackjack program and as a result
its warning us that it's shadowing the
variable in the outer scope which of course
is the variable on line 20 which is in the
list_directors function so at this
point you might be wondering well maybe
I need to use a global declaration on
line 7 to fix this lets try doing that
....and you notice we got a different error here and will get rid of the equal 0...
and if we try and run this now we actually get an error
you can see the named error is named
tab_stop is not defined
so clearly there's still something
going on here and the warning here is
that remove redundant parenthesis and
so I'll just fix that up and that shouldn't
have an extra bracket their so I am to use to
programming on other languages so lets fix that up
at this point even though we know its
crash because I have shown you that if we
run this again just to confirm its still crashing we are getting this variable error tab_stop is not
defined and obviously there's now no errors
in the program but clearly theirs something
still going on that is causing this
error so with Python 2 we would have been
pretty much stuck here now their are ways to
get around this and of course we could
just create a global variable but
Python 3 introduces another way to
specify the scope of a variable in situations
like this
and what we need to do is change the
global reference on line 7 to non-local
if we do that we should find it works we type....and now if we run it
you will find its now working correctly you can see the
directory listings working we are getting
embedded file names and everything seems
to be working better than it did before
so lets end the video here in the next video we're going to continue on we're
going to just sort of talked about why this is
working and understanding the scope and
how this non local keyword is helping
this to work so see you in the next
video